>> "CONVERSATION WITH THE
CANDIDATE" CONTINUES.
ADAM: THANK YOU FOR CLICKING ON
OUR EXTENDED DIGITAL
"CONVERSATION WITH THE
CANDIDATE" WITH ENTREPRENEUR,
ANDREW YANG.
WE HAVE 30 MINUTES
COMMERCIAL-FREE, SO WE CAN GET
TO AS MANY QUESTIONS AS
POSSIBLE.
>> MY DAD AND MY FAMILY GREW UP
AS KENNEDY DEMOCRATS.
NOWADAYS, WE WONDER, WHERE HAVE
THE DEMOCRATS GONE?
NOW, ALL YOU SEE IS A BUNCH OF
SOCIALISTS HAVE INFILTRATED
THEM.
WHERE ARE THE DEMOCRATS WORKING
FOR AMERICA?
MR. YANG: I WAS IN IOWA WITH A
TRUCKER NAMED DENNIS.
HE ASKED ME A SIMILAR QUESTION.
WHY IS IT THAT THE DEMOCRATS
DON’T SEEM TO BE WHAT THE
WORKING CLASS -- WITH THE
WORKING CLASS?
I GOT THE SAME PERCEPTION FROM
UNION WORKERS IN NEW HAMPSHIRE.
TO ME, THE DEMOCRATS NEED TO
HAVE THE BACKS OF THE WORKING
PEOPLE OF THIS COUNTRY.
THAT WILL BE TRANSFORMATIVE FOR
THE PARTY.
THE FACT THAT THAT HAS CHANGED
IS THE MISSING PIECE.
WE NEED TO TAKE THAT BACK SO
THAT YOU FEEL LIKE THE DEMOCRATS
HAVE YOUR BACK.
ADAM: WHY DO YOU THINK THAT HAS
CHANGED OVER THE LAST FEW
DECADES?
MR. YANG: THERE’S BEEN THIS
MOVEMENT IN THE PARTY TO BECOME
THIS MORE URBAN PARTY.
THE URBAN PARTY HAS ADOPTED
VARIOUS CULTURAL ISSUES AS
OPPOSED TO ECONOMIC AND
BREAD-AND-BUTTER ISSUES.
THE DEMOCRATIC PARTY HAS BECOME
TOO TRUSTING OF INSTITUTIONS BUT
NOT TRUSTING ENOUGH OF PEOPLE.
IF YOU WERE TO TALK TO DEMOCRAT
ABOUT HOW TO FIX SCHOOLS, IT
WOULD BE LIKE, INVEST IN
TECHNOLOGY FOR THE SCHOOLS.
THE BEST THING YOU COULD DO IS
PAY THE TEACHERS MORE.
THE DEMOCRATIC SOLUTIONS HAVE
BEEN LESS AND LESS COMPELLING TO
PEOPLE.
PEOPLE HAVE LOST CONFIDENCE IN
THIS ARRAY OF PROGRAMS.
THE DEMOCRATIC SOLUTION IS
CREATE A NEW PROGRAM.
WE JUST NEED TO GET RESOURCES
INTO THE HANDS OF PARENTS AND
FAMILIES AND TEACHERS AND
SCHOOLS.
THAT WILL BE A BETTER APPROACH.
ADAM: IS UNIVERSAL BASIC INCOME
SOCIALISM BY OTHER MEANS?
MR. YANG: IT’S VERY MUCH NOT.
IT IS CAPITALISM WHERE INCOME
DOESN’T START AT ZERO.
WE ARE UP TO $20 TRILLION IN
GDP.
WHERE THE RICHEST AND MOST
ADVANCED ECONOMY.
MOST PEOPLE IN THE COUNTRY ARE
NOT EXPERIENCING THAT.
78% OF AMERICANS ARE LIVING
PAYCHECK TO PAYCHECK.
MOST AMERICANS CAN’T AFFORD AN
UNEXPECTED $500 BILL.
I’VE BEEN WHERE THE BOUNTY IS
BEING CONCENTRATED.
THERE’S SO MUCH VALUE BEING
CREATED THAT WE CAN EASILY DO
THIS FOR THE AMERICAN PEOPLE.
IT WOULD BUILD A TRICKLE UP
ECONOMY.
THAT’S WHAT THE DEMOCRATIC PARTY
NEEDS.
>> A LOT OF THE CONVERSATION HAS
BEEN ABOUT HOW TECHNOLOGY IS
CHANGING THE WORKFORCE.
HOW DO YOU PLAN TO PREPARE
AMERICANS FOR THE FUTURE
WORKFORCE NEEDS?
MR. YANG: RIGHT NOW, WE ARE
OVERPRESCRIBING COLLEGE.
THE MISSING PIECE IS TECHNICAL
APPRENTICESHIP FOR HIGH SCHOOL
UP.
ONLY 6% OF HIGH SCHOOL STUDENTS
ARE IN APPRENTICESHIP PROGRAMS.
THAT REFLECT MILLIONS OF
UNFILLED JOBS THAT WILL BE
RESISTANT TO AUTOMATION.
IT’S HARD TO AUTOMATE AIR
CONDITIONING REPAIR OR PLUMBING.
IT’S EASY TO AUTOMATE
BOOKKEEPING, ACCOUNTING, AND A
LOT OF THE ENTRY-LEVEL
WHITE-COLLAR JOBS.
WE NEED TO DRAMATICALLY CHANNEL
MORE OF OUR RESOURCES TOWARDS
TECHNICAL AND VOCATIONAL TRENDS
THAT WILL BE WITH US FOR A LONG
TIME.
THEY ARE GOOD, SOLID JOBS THAT
PEOPLE ENJOY.
ADAM: ANOTHER SOCIAL MEDIA
QUESTION.
THIS ONE FROM PATRICK COLLIS.
HOW ABOUT PAY OFF THE DEFICIT,
THEN MANDATE A BALANCED BUDGET?
MR. YANG: 40 OUT OF 50 STATES
HAVE A BALANCED BUDGET
AMENDMENT.
WE ARE THE RICHEST COUNTRY IN
THE HISTORY OF THE WORLD.
WE ARE ALSO THE GLOBAL RESERVE
CURRENCY.
WE CAN MAKE MOVES TO BENEFIT THE
AMERICAN PEOPLE.
THAT’S WHAT WE SHOULD DO.
RUNNING THIS MASSIVE DEFICIT IS
NOT A GOOD THING.
WE SHOULD TRY TO BRING IT DOWN
IN VARIOUS WAYS.
A BALANCED BUDGET WOULD BE THE
WRONG WAY TO GO.
I WOULD BRING THE DEFICIT DOWN.
A BALANCED BUDGET WOULD BE A
GOAL THAT WOULD DO MORE HARM IN
THE SHORT RUN THEN GOOD.
BEST MAN GOOD -- MORE HARM IN
THE SHORT RUN DTHAN GOOD.
A LOT OF THAT MONEY IS NOT GOING
TOWARDS THE TWO THREATS OF TODAY
-- TRUE THREATS OF TODAY.
CLIMATE CHANGE, CYBERSECURITY,
AI, LOOSE NUCLEAR MATERIALS AND
HAVING MORE AIRCRAFT CARRIERS
AND EQUIPMENT DOESN’T PROTECT US
AGAINST THAT.
CHINA AND RUSSIA COULD PROBABLY
SHUT DOWN OUR POWER PLANTS
THROUGH OUR INFRASTRUCTURE --
THAT IS THE DANGER OF THE 20%
THREE.
-- OF THE 21ST CENTURY.
WE NEED TO START DIRECTING THOSE
DOLLARS TOWARD PROTECTING OUR
INFRASTRUCTURE.
ADAM: NEXT QUESTION FROM GAIL
TAYLOR.
>> WOULD YOU SUPPORT OVERTURNING
CITIZENS UNITED?
MR. YANG: VERY MUCH SO.
THAT WAS THE WORST DECISION
EVER.
UNFORTUNATELY, YOU NEED A CAUSE
ADDITIONAL AMENDMENT TO OVERTURN
IT -- YOU NEED A CONSTITUTIONAL
AMENDMENT TO OVERTURN IT.
I THOUGHT THAT WAS A BAD
DECISION.
ADAM: JUST ABOUT EVERY VOTER
HERE IS INTERESTED IN THE
SUPREME COURT.
WHAT ARE YOU LOOKING FOR ANY
POTENTIAL SUPREME COURT JUSTICE
NOMINEE -- IN A POTENTIAL
SUPREME COURT JUSTICE NOMINEE?
MR. YANG: WHAT THE REPUBLICANS
DID BY SANDBAGGING MAYOR GARLAND
WAS UNPRECEDENTED -- MERRICK
GARLAND WAS UNPRECEDENTED.
THAT ENDED UP TIPPING THE
BALANCE OF THE COURT.
AT THIS POINT, YOU HAVE TO TRY
TO UNDO SOME OF WHAT HAS BEEN
DONE.
I WOULD BE LOOKING FOR JUSTICE
THAT HAS VIEWS THAT ALIGN WITH
THE DEMOCRATIC PARTY IN TERMS OF
MOVING SOCIETIES
FORWARD.
SOME OF THE JUSTICES APPOINTED
RECENTLY WILL MOVE US THE OTHER
WAY.
ADAM: YOU WANT TO KNOW WHAT YOUR
JUSTICE BELIEVES.
MR. YANG: I WENT TO LAW SCHOOL
INTO CONSTITUTIONAL LAW.
I UNDERSTAND THE LEGAL BACKDROP
OF THE SUPREME COURT.
I WOULD APPOINTED JUSTICE THAT
IS ALIGNED WITH THE VALUES OF
PEOPLE WHO VOTED ME INTO OFFICE.
>> THE IDEA THAT SO MANY OF THE
MEMBERS OF THE SUPREME COURT ARE
FOR THE SAME ACADEMIC
INSTITUTIONS, THE SAME
BACKGROUND -- IS IT TIME TO FIND
JUSTICES WITH A MORE VARIED
EXPERIENCE?
MR. YANG: LITERALLY, THEY ARE
PICKING JUSTICE BASED UPON THEIR
YOUTH SO THEY CAN STICK AROUND
FOR A FEW MORE YEARS.
THE WHOLE THING IS SO PERVERSE.
WE HAVE TO MOVE TO 18 YEAR
TERMS.
THAT WAY, EVERY PRESIDENT WOULD
HAVE TWO APPOINTMENTS.
IN TERMS OF INSTITUTIONS, SURE,
RELYING UPON ACADEMIC PEDIGREE
AT THIS POINT -- SOME OF THE
BEST JUSTICES DID NOT GO TO THE
SAME SCHOOLS.
>> IN THIS TIME OF WHAT APPEARS
TO BE EXTREMISM IN BOTH PARTIES,
WHAT WOULD YOU SUGGEST CAN BE
DONE TO BRING A SPIRIT OF
COMPROMISE AND CIVILITY BACK TO
THE POLITICAL PROCESS?
MR. YANG: WE’VE BEEN DISTRACTED
BY A LOT OF THINGS.
WE NEED TO FOCUS ON SOLUTIONS
AND THINGS WE CAN DO TO IMPROVE
PEOPLE’S LIVES.
THAT’S WHY THE FREEDOM DIVIDEND
IS THE CENTERPIECE OF MY PLAN.
THAT IS VERY BIPARTISAN.
IT IS NOT LEFT OR RIGHT.
IT IS FORWARD.
AFTER WE DO THIS, THE BIG HOPE
IS WE CAN REVERSE THE MINDSET OF
SCARCITY THAT IS OVERTAKING OUR
COMMUNITIES.
AMERICANS ARE NOT DOING WELL.
IF YOU CAN’T PAY YOUR BILLS,
IT’S MUCH EASIER TO BECOME
NEGATIVE ABOUT OTHER TYPES OF
PEOPLE.
IF WE REVERSE THIS MINDSET OF
SCARCITY AND REPLACE IT WITH A
MINDSET OF ABUNDANCE AND
OPTIMISM AND GENEROSITY,
HOPEFULLY, WE CAN BRING THE
AMERICAN PEOPLE TOGETHER.
ADAM: I AM CURIOUS, WHAT DO YOU
DO WHEN YOU GET THE BLAST OF
NEGATIVITY ON SOCIAL MEDIA?
YOU TWEET SOMETHING ABOUT
POLICY, AND WHETHER IT IS BOUGHT
OR REAL PEOPLE COMING AFTER YOU,
HOW DO YOU DEAL WITH THAT?
MR. YANG: IN MY CASE, ANY
NEGATIVITY IS A GOOD THING, JUST
BECAUSE IT MEANS PEOPLE ARE
DIGGING INTO THE PROPOSALS THAT
I HAVE FOR THE ECONOMY AND THE
AMERICAN PEOPLE.
AND I AM NOT THE SORT THAT
EXPECT EVERYONE TO AGREE WITH
ME.
IF PEOPLE COME TO ME WITH
QUALITY ARGUMENTS AND FACTS, I
AM OPEN TO CONSIDERING THEM.
IF THEY ARE JUST STARTING THINGS
ARE NOT FACTUAL AND SEEMS LIKE
HOSTILITY FOR THE SAKE OF
HOSTILITY, IT IS EASY TO PUT IT
ASIDE AND IGNORE.
BUT I HAVE TO SAY I AM NOT
GETTING MUCH HOSTILITY AT ALL.
THE HOSTILITY IS SOMETHING LIKE
100 TO 1.
WE HAVE RAISED HALF A MILLION
DOLLARS FROM EVERYDAY AMERICANS
IN THE LAST TWO WEEKS.
SO THERE IS A LOT OF ENTHUSIASM
FOR THIS VISION IN THE ECONOMY,
AND THE NEGATIVITY, FRANKLY, I
HAVE NOT SEEN MUCH OF.
AND I’VE BEEN ON FOX FOUR TIMES.
FIVE.
I CANNOT EVEN KEEP TRACK.
[LAUGHTER]
ADAM: CAT MCAFEE ASKED "SHOULD
THE GOVERNMENT FORCE THE NCAA TO
PAY ITS ATHLETES?"
MR. YANG: 100% YES.
IF YOU GO TO MY WEBSITE, YOU SEE
I HAVE 76 POLICIES.
BAN ROBO CALLING.
GET A PSYCHOLOGIST IN THE WHITE
HOUSE.
FORGIVE STUDENT LOANS.
AND PAY NCAA ATHLETES.
IT IS WRONG TO MAKE -- EXPLOIT
YOUNG PEOPLE MAKING MILLIONS OF
DOLLARS, AND MEANWHILE YOUR
PAYING THE COACH AND ATHLETIC
DIRECTOR HUNDREDS OF MILLIONS OF
DOLLARS.
WHAT KIND OF MESSAGE IS THAT?
IT IS OK TO EXPLOIT YOUNG PEOPLE
WHO ARE TAKING RISKS FOR THEIR
BODIES?
SO 100%, PAID REVENUE-GENERATING
ASSETS.
THEY SHOULD BE ABLE TO SIGN
MEMORABILIA AND GET THE SHARE OF
THEIR MERCHANDISE.
ADAM: SO THE REVENUE GENERATING
ASSETS, MAYBE NOT THE CLUB
SOCCER TEAM?
[LAUGHTER]
MR. YANG: YEAH, IT WOULD BE
REVENUE-GENERATING.
BECAUSE IF YOU ARE PLAYING IN A
GIANT, SOLD-OUT ARENA, AND
PEOPLE ARE PAYING LOTS OF MONEY,
AND THE SCHOOL IS MAKING TONS OF
MONEY, IT DOES NOT MAKE SENSE
FOR THE STUDENTS TO BE SCRAPING
BY.
ADAM: THAT WOULD BE ON TOP OF
THE?
U.B.I..
MR. YANG: YEAH.
IF YOU HAVE CHILDREN, IT IS LIKE
WHY IS SCHOOL SO EXPENSIVE NOW?
WHEN YOU LOOK IT UP, YOU ARE
LIKE HOW DID THAT HAPPEN?
I WILL TRY TO BRING IT DOWN BY
TYING THE COST RATIO DOWN TO
FEDERAL LOAN ACCESS.
ALSO PUTTING $1000 A MONTH INTO
YOUR HANDS AND THE HANDS OF YOUR
CHILDREN WILL MAKE A HUGE
DIFFERENCE.
IF SOMEONE SHOWS UP TO COLLEGE,
THEY WOULD BE GETTING UNIVERSAL
BASIC INCOME.
MOST OF THAT GOES TO TUITION,
BUT IF THEY ARE EIGHT
REVENUE-GENERATING ATHLETE, THEY
SHOULD GET IT.
ADAM: LET’S MIGRATE BACK TO THE
MIDDLE HERE.
LET’S GO TO CLARA MONIER
FOR A QUESTION.
CLARA: GOOD MORNING.
THANK YOU FOR BRINGING YOUR
INTERESTING PROPOSALS TO US HERE
IN NEW HAMPSHIRE.
I AM INTERESTED IN WHAT YOU’RE
PROPOSALS ARE FOR THE SOCIAL
SECURITY SYSTEM.
IT HAS BEEN PREDICTED TO BE -25%
IN 2035.
IF SOME CHANGES ARE MADE NOW,
MAYBE THE CRISIS CAN BE AVERTED.
LISTENING TO YOUR IDEAS WOULD BE
VERY INTERESTING.
MR. YANG: SOCIAL SECURITY IS
SCHEDULED TO GO BANKRUPT IN A
NUMBER OF YEARS, BUT THE TRUTH
IS SOCIAL SECURITY’S BANKRUPTCY
IS AN ACCOUNTING FICTION.
THE WAY THEY SET IT UP IS YOU
PUT MONEY ASIDE AND GET BACK
YOUR MONEY, BUT THE TRUTH IS THE
MONEY YOU HAVE BEEN PUTTING IN
HAS BEEN GOING TO OTHER THINGS,
AND NEW MONEY IS GOING TO COME
IN.
THE WAY SOCIAL SECURITY GETS
FINANCED, IF YOU WERE A MOTHER
AND DID NOT BUILD UP A WORK
HISTORY, YOUR SOCIAL SECURITY
BENEFITS ARE LOWER.
THAT IS PART OF THE WAY THE
SYSTEM IS SET UP.
I WOULD DRAMATICALLY STRENGTHEN
AND REVAMP THE SOCIAL SECURITY
SYSTEM.
YOU WOULD HAVE NO FEAR OF IT
GOING BACK UP EVER AGAIN.
WE HAVE TO DECIDE WHAT KIND OF
COUNTRY WE ARE GOING TO BE.
WE KNOW MILLIONS OF AMERICANS DO
NOT HAVE ADEQUATE RETIREMENT
SAVINGS, AND WE ARE HEADING INTO
AN ERA WHERE WE WILL SEE UTTERLY
AMERICANS WORKING AT A
CONVENIENCE STORE UNTIL THE DAY
THEY DIE AND DYING ON THE
STREETS.
OR WE GET OUR ACT TOGETHER AND
SAY WE ARE A MORAL COUNTRY.
AND IF YOU ARE A CITIZEN OF THIS
COUNTRY AND OUR PAST A CERTAIN
AGE, YOU SHOULD BE GETTING
ENOUGH SO YOU CAN LIVE IN A
DIGNIFIED AND QUALITY
RETIREMENT.
$1000 A MONTH WOULD GO A LONG
WAY FOR AMERICANS THE ENTIRE WAY
UP.
BUT THE ENTIRE BANKRUPTCY OF
SOCIAL SECURITY IS SOMETHING WE
CAN COME TOGETHER AND CHANGE IF
WE DECIDE TO DO SO.
CLARA: THANK YOU.
MR. YANG: I HAVE PARENTS, TOO,
LET ME PUT IT THAT WAY.
MY PARENTS ARE STILL ALIVE.
HAVING ELDERLY AMERICANS
STRUGGLE TO THAT DEGREE IS
IMMORAL.
ADAM: YOUR WEBSITE HAS MORE
POLICY POSITIONS THAN MOST.
MR. YANG: AND THERE ARE NEW ONES
COMING.
ADAM: ONE OF THE INTERESTING
ONES THAT CAUGHT MY EYE WAS THIS
IDEA OF DOING SOMETHING ABOUT
LOST I’VE BECOME DEFUNCT.
-- THAT HAVE BECOME -- LAWS THAT
HAVE BECOME DEFUNCT.
MR. YANG: SO HOW MANY OF YOU
HAVE BEEN TO A GHOST MALL OR A
MALL EMPTYING OUT.
IT IS SCARY.
YOU DO NOT WANT TO BE THERE.
IT SEEMS LIKE A CRIME ZONE.
WHEN THOSE THINGS GO EMPTY, THEY
SPREAD BLIGHT FOR MILES AND
MILES AND DEPRESS PROPERTY
VALUES.
AS THESE MALLS CLOSE, IT
BEHOOVES US TO FIND A GREAT IF
USE FOR THEM, IF WE CAN.
IT HAS HAPPENED IN PART OF THE
COUNTRY WHERE THEY ARE GETTING
USED AS CHURCHES, COMMUNITY
SPACES, OFFICES, SOMETIMES
RESIDENTIAL.
THEY ARE POORLY DESIGNED FOR
SOME OF THESE THINGS, BUT YOU
CAN MAKE MOVES IN THIS
DIRECTION.
I WILL PASS THE AMERICAN MALL
ACT THAT WILL MATCH FUNDS SO IF
A COMMUNITY HAS A CREATIVE USE
FOR THAT MALL, THEY WILL GET
BACKING FROM THE GOVERNMENT TO
HELP MAKE THAT TRANSITION.
BECAUSE IF YOU CAN REVIVE THAT
MALL, IT IS A HUGE VALUE SAVINGS
OR THAT COMMUNITY.
IF THAT MALL GOES DARK, THE
BLIGHT WILL SPREAD.
THIS IS HAPPENING TO ALMOST ONE
THIRD OF AMERICAN MALLS IN THE
NEXT FIVE YEARS.
BECAUSE OF WHAT?
AMAZON.
ADAM: THE CARDBOARD BOX INDUSTRY
IS DOING VERY WELL, THOUGH.
YOU SAY YOU WANT TO BRING DOWN
OVERDOSE NUMBERS AND OPIOID
ADDICTION BY 20% OVER FOUR
YEARS.
HOW DO YOU ACHIEVE THAT GOAL?
MR. YANG: THERE IS AN AMERICAN
IDEA THAT YOU CANNOT TREAT DRUGS
WITH DRUGS.
IT TURNS OUT, AT LEAST IN SOME
COUNTRIES, THEY HAVE BEEN
PROVIDING NONADDICTIVE DRUG
SUBSTITUTES.
FRANCE, FOR EXAMPLE, LOWERED ITS
HEROINE OVERDOSE RATE BY MAKING
A NONADDICTIVE DRUG SUBSTITUTE
FREELY AVAILABLE.
THAT IS WHAT WE WOULD DO IN THE
U.S.
NOT JUST THE NALOXONE, BUT ALSO
SUBSTITUTES TO HELP PEOPLE
MANAGE ADDICTION.
BECAUSE THERE IS NO RIGHT WAY TO
GET OFF OF DRUGS, WE HAVE TO
MAKE EVERY TOOL AVAILABLE TO
PEOPLE.
WE CERTAINLY SHOULD NOT LEAVE
ANYTHING OFF THE TABLE,
INCLUDING NONADDICTIVE DRUG
SUBSTITUTES.
ADAM: IN ONE OF THE THINGS YOU
MENTIONED IS YOU WANT A
PSYCHOLOGIST IN THE WHITE HOUSE.
WHAT ROLE DOES THIS PERSON PLAY?
OBVIOUSLY, THERE IS A CLEAR ONE
MEDICALLY, BUT IN TERMS OF HOW
THE RESIDENT WILL MAKE --
PRESIDENT MAKE DECISIONS.
MR. YANG: SO MY BROTHER IS A
PSYCHOLOGY PROFESSOR.
MY OLDER BROTHER IS A PSYCHOLOGY
PROFESSOR AT NYU.
WE KNOW PEOPLE IN GOVERNMENT ARE
UNDER A LOT OF STRESS, MAKING
VERY IMPORTANT DECISIONS.
AND MENTAL HEALTH IS GOING TO BE
THE LAST THING ON PEOPLE’S
MINDS.
IF YOU GET A MENTAL HEALTH
RESOURCE INTO THE WHITE HOUSE,
ONE, IT D STIGMATIZES MENTAL
HEALTH ISSUES AROUND THE
COUNTRY.
WE ALL HAVE STRUGGLES.
WE ALL BENEFIT FROM HAVING SOME
SORT OF RESOURCES.
TWO, IN REAL TERMS, THE CHIEF OF
STAFF, WITH A MENTAL HEALTH
RESOURCE, IF THEY NOTICE SOMEONE
IS STRESSED OUT AND STRUGGLING,
THEY CAN SAY YOU SHOULD PROBABLY
SEE THAT PERSON, YOU ARE
STRUGGLING.
AND IT TURNS OUT WE’LL HAVE TO
SEE THAT PERSON PERIODICALLY, SO
IF THE PSYCHOLOGIST SAYS THIS
PARTICULAR PERSON IS STRUGGLING
IN A PARTICULAR WAY, YOU CAN
START TRYING TO MAKE MOVES.
ONE OF THE THINGS YOU CANNOT
HAVE IS YOU CANNOT HAVE THIS
SUPERMAN, SUPERWOMAN CULTURE
WHERE EVERYONE PRETENDS TO BE
SUPERHUMAN, AND THEN YOU WIND UP
WITH REAL PROBLEMS IN MYSTICS
BEING MADE AND DECISIONS BEING
MADE THAT SHOULD NOT BE MADE.
ADAM: CERTAINLY WE SEE THE
PRESIDENT THESE DAYS AGING AND
OFFICE QUITE A BIT FROM GEORGE
W. BUSH TO PRESIDENT OBAMA.
PRESIDENT TRUMP HAS DONE A
PRETTY GOOD JOB OF UPKEEP, I
GUESS.
MR. YANG: BECAUSE HIS HAIR IS
NOT REAL.
ADAM: WHAT ABOUT GUN VIOLENCE?
MR. YANG: IT IS A COMPLICATED
PROBLEM.
GUNS SHOULD BE TREATED SIMILARLY
TO AUTOMOBILES.
WE HAVE TEXANS --
WE HAVE TESTING AND LICENSING
FOR AUTOMOBILES BECAUSE THEY CAN
KILL PEOPLE.
THAT SAID, THERE ARE 300 MILLION
FIREARMS OWNED BY CITIZENS, AND
THERE IS NO REALISTIC WAY YOU
CAN REDUCE THAT NUMBER
DRAMATICALLY IN A SHORT PERIOD
OF TIME.
A LOT OF IT THE INVESTMENT
SHOULD BE MADE AROUND THINGS
LIKE MENTAL HEALTH RESOURCES AND
THINGS TO KEEP PEOPLE STRONG,
PARTICULARLY IN THE SCHOOL
ENVIRONMENT.
IN MANY SCHOOLS, THERE IS A
TROUBLED BOY, AND EVERYONE KNOWS
THE BOY IS TROUBLED, BUT NO ONE
WANTS TO RAISE THE ALARM ABOUT
IT.
MY BROTHER, THE PSYCHOLOGIST,
KNOWS THAT IF YOU HAVE ADEQUATE
RESOURCES, YOU CAN PREEMPT SOME
OF THESE SITUATIONS SO WHAT --
ADAM: SO WHAT DO YOU DO TO GET
AROUND THIS?
WHAT DO YOU DO ABOUT THAT
TROUBLED BOY?
MR. YANG: IF PEOPLE FEEL
COMFORTABLE AND THERE IS A
RESOURCE THERE AND WE LISTEN TO
OUR CHILDREN, AND THEY SAY
IT SEEMS THAT BOY IS STRUGGLING,
FIRST WE NEED TO CREATE A
CULTURE THAT ACKNOWLEDGES
STRUGGLE.
IT CANNOT BE THAT IF SOMEONE
SAYS YOU ARE STRUGGLING, THAT IS
SOMEHOW STIGMATIZED AND MARKS
YOU IN A NEGATIVE WAY.
SECOND IS YOU HAVE REAL
RESOURCES AT WORK TO TRY AND
INTERVENE AND IMPROVE AND
SUPPORT THAT YOUNG PERSON.
GENERALLY, A YOUNG BOY, BECAUSE
WE KNOW YOUNG BOYS ARE MUCH MORE
LIKELY TO INFLICT GUN VIOLENCE
ON THEIR PEERS THAN OTHERS.
ADAM: LET’S JUMP BACK ON THE
TECH CONVERSATION.
HOW DO YOU FEEL ABOUT NET
NEUTRALITY, AND WHY SHOULD THAT
MATTER?
MR. YANG: THE BIG THING IS
SHOULD BIG COMPANIES PAY TO HAVE
BETTER INTERNET ACCESS THAN
OTHERS?
IF YOU THINK THAT IS A BAD IDEA,
YOU ARE FOR NET NEUTRALITY.
I AM FOR NET NEUTRALITY.
BIG COMPANIES HAVE ENOUGH
ADVANTAGES.
SO I AM PRO NET NEUTRALITY.
IT IS THE LEAST WE CAN DO.
EVEN WITH NET NEUTRALITY, THERE
ARE MASSIVE ADVANTAGES.
ADAM: IN TERMS OF THE REGULAR
PERSON, WHY SHOULD THEY CARE
ABOUT THIS ISSUE?
MR. YANG: THE QUESTION IS
WHETHER YOU WANT A LEVEL PLAYING
FIELD ONLINE FOR VENDORS, FOR
PEOPLE WHO ARE TRYING TO REACH
YOU, FOR CONTENT PROVIDERS.
IF YOU WERE GETTING BETTER
SPEEDS FROM CERTAIN PROVIDERS,
YOU WOULD USE THEM MORE, AND IT
WOULD CONSOLIDATE POWER IN THE
HANDS OF THE LARGEST COMPANIES.
ADAM: ANOTHER SOCIAL MEDIA
QUESTION COMING IN, THIS ONE
FROM ANDY.
THIS IS A LITTLE POINTED.
HE SAYS, "SO I GET A $1,000 A
MONTH FOR BUSTING MY  BUTT AT
WORK, AND SOMEBODY ELSE GETS
$1000 FOR NOT WORKING?
AM I UNDERSTANDING THIS
CORRECTLY?"
MR. YANG: IF YOU’RE BUSTING YOUR
BUTT AT WORK, PRESUMABLY YOU ARE
GETTING PAID FOR THAT.
SO YOU GET $1000 A MONTH FROM
THE RICHEST COUNTRY IN THE WORLD
AND YOUR EMPLOYER IS PAYING YOU.
AND THE PERSON WHO IS NOT
WORKING, THEY ARE GETTING $1000
A MONTH, AND THEY SEE YOU COMING
HOME FROM WORK, THEY THINK MAYBE
I CAN GET MORE, GET A JOB.
THE BIGGEST MISCONCEPTION IS
THAT THE FREEDOM DIVIDEND WILL
SOMEHOW MITIGATE WORK -- IT WILL
NOT SPEED IT WILL CREATE TENS OF
THOUSANDS OF NEW JOBS.
IF YOU ARE GETTING AN EXTRA
$12,000 A YEAR, HOW MUCH OF THAT
WILL BE SPENT RIGHT IN YOUR
COMMUNITY?
MOST OF IT.
TUTORING, FOOD FOR YOUR KIDS,
CAR REPAIRS YOU HAVE BEEN
PUTTING OFF, THE OCCASIONAL
NIGHT OUT.
IT STAYS HERE IN NEW HAMPSHIRE.
SOME OF IT GOES TO JEFF BEZOS
AND THE GANG.
YOU WILL DO SOME AMAZONING.
FOR MOST OF IT STAYS HERE.
THAT WILL BE TRUE FOR THAT
GENTLEMAN’S COMMUNITY AS WELL.
HE WILL GET THE MONEY FROM HIS
JOB AND HIS DIVIDEND.
ADAM: YOU ARE ALREADY CONDUCTING
YOUR EXPERIMENT IN NEW
HAMPSHIRE.
YOU HAVE A FAMILY AND CROSSTOWN,
WHERE YOU ARE JUST PAYING THEM
WITH THOUSAND DOLLARS A MONTH
YOURSELF.
WHEN YOU DOTHAT, ARE YOU
TREATING -- ARE YOU KEEPING
TRACK OF WHAT THEY DO?
ARE YOU TRYING TO FIGURE OUT IF
THEY ARE SUCCESSFUL WITH THAT
MONEY?
MR. YANG: I AM NOT EVEN SURE
THEY SPENT THE FIRST $2000 THAT
THEY HAVE GOTTEN.
AND IF THEY DO NOT, THAT IS
GREAT.
IF THEY SPEND IT ON SOMETHING
THAT MAKES THEIR LIVES BETTER,
ALSO GREAT.
THE FOSSI FAMILY IN GOFFSTOWN,
NEW HAMPSHIRE.
I AM DOING THE SAME FOR A FAMILY
IN IOWA.
HERE IS WHAT IS INSPIRATIONAL.
A COUPLE IN GEORGIA WAS SO
INSPIRED THEY ARE GIVING $1000 A
MONTH TO A FAMILY IN SOUTH
CAROLINA THEY HAVE NEVER MET,
BECAUSE THEY KNOW THAT IS THE
RIGHT THING TO DO.
WE CAN IMPROVE AMERICANS LIVES
QUICKLY.
I AM NOT CHECKING IN ON THEM AT
ALL.
WHATEVER THEY DO WILL BE GREAT.
ADAM: LET’S CHECK ON AN ISSUE IN
A HOT BUTTON --
MR. YANG: I KIND OF KNOW WHERE
THE MONEY WILL GO.
IT WILL GO TO JANELLE’S COLLEGE
TUITION.
SO THAT IS WHERE THE MONEY IS
GOING, I AM SURE.
ADAM: LET’S TALK ABOUT AN ISSUE
IMPORTANT TO NEW HAMPSHIRE RIGHT
NOW.
THE LEGALIZATION OF MARIJUANA.
WHERE DO YOU STAND ON
LEGALIZATION AND MEDICAL
MARIJUANA?
MR. YANG: I AM FOR THE FULL
LEGALIZATION OF MARIJUANA AND
REMOVING IT FROM THE FEDERAL
CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES LIST.
IT IS BETTER FOR MANAGING PAIN
THAN OPIATES.
LESS DANGEROUS.
WE STILL NEED TO REGULATE IT.
YOU CAN HAVE SOMETHING THE LEGAL
AND REGULATE IT.
BUT TO ME, IT IS CLEAR THAT OUR
ADMINISTRATION OF THE
CRIMINALIZATION OF IT HAS NOT
BEEN EQUITABLE, AND WE SHOULD
LEGALIZE IT FULLY.
ADAM: LET’S TALK A LITTLE BIT
ABOUT ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY.
HOW WOULD YOU PLAN TO USE ALL OF
YOUR FRIENDS IN TECH, ALL OF
THIS AI, ALL OF THESE GREAT
THINGS HAPPENING, HOW DO YOU
APPLY THAT TO THE PROBLEM OF
SUPERFUND SITES THAT ARE
POLLUTING DRINKING WATER,
CREATING HEALTH PROBLEMS?
MR. YANG: I WISH THERE WAS A
TECH SOLUTION.
THERE MIGHT BE AT THE MARGINS.
BUT WE NEED TO DO MUCH, MUCH
MORE TO POLICE SUPERFUND SITES
AND TIE CORPORATE INCENTIVES TO
OUR AIR AND WATERPROOF THE
PROBLEM IS THESE COMPANIES ARE
MAKING A COST BENEFIT ANALYSIS
AND SAY IF IT PAYS TO POLLUTE,
THAT IS WHAT I AM GOING TO DO.
WE HAVE TO MAKE IT MORE COSTLY
FOR THEM TO POLLUTE WITH A
CARBON FEE AND DIVIDEND SYSTEM
AND CHANNEL THOSE RESOURCES TO
MAKING IT HARDER AND HARDER FOR
COMPANIES TO CUT CORNERS.
ADAM: ON CLIMATE CHANGE, HOW DO
YOU PLAN TO SOLVE THE PROBLEM IN
AMERICA WHILE STILL ALLOW THE
DEVELOPING -- ALLOW THE
DEVELOPING WORLD TO DEVELOP AND
MAKING SURE THEY ARE NOT PUTTING
TOO MUCH CARBON IN THE
ATMOSPHERE?
MR. YANG: THIS IS THE HARSH
TRUTH ABOUT CLIMATE CHANGE AND
GLOBAL EMISSIONS.
THE UNITED STATES IS ONLY 15% OF
EVEN IF WE WERE TO GO REALLY
EXTREME AND CUT OUR EMISSIONS
SIGNIFICANTLY, IT MIGHT CUT
GLOBAL EMISSIONS BY 5%.
THE FOUR WARMEST YEARS IN
HISTORY HAVE BEEN THE LAST FOUR
YEARS.
AT THIS POINT, WE ARE ON THE
CURVE TOWARDS A WARMING PLANET.
IT IS NOT LIKE IF WE ALL OF US
ARE -- ALL OF A SUDDEN START
RECYCLING DILIGENTLY IT WILL
START TO COOL AGAIN.
THIS IS SOMETHING WHERE
TECHNOLOGY WILL COME INTO PLAY.
WE NEED TO INVEST IN
INFRASTRUCTURE TO MAKE US MORE
RESILIENT AND SUSTAINABLE.
YOU SEE THAT AROUND THE COUNTRY,
THAT THERE ARE FLOODS AND
NATURAL DISASTERS THAT ARE
DANGEROUS TO PEOPLE, IN PART
BECAUSE INFRASTRUCTURE IS
FAILING.
THEN WE NEED TO INVEST IN
REVERSING SOME OF THE MOST
SEVERE EFFECTS.
IF HE CAN GET CARBON OUT OF THE
ATMOSPHERE AND FIND A WAY TO
SEQUESTER IT, THAT IS A ACTION
WE SHOULD GO IN.
THAT IS WHERE TECHNOLOGY SHOULD
HELP.
BUT WE HAVE TO START BEING
HONEST WITH THE FACT THAT WE ARE
NOT THE WORLD.
IF WE REDUCED ADMISSIONS, THAT
WOULD HELP BUT WOULD NOT SOLVE
THE PROBLEM ENTIRELY.
ADAM: ONE LAST QUESTION HERE.
WE HAVE EXHAUSTED THE ROOM, SO I
AM FEELING IN HERE.
LET’S TALK ABOUT THE VOTING
PROCESS.
YOU WANT PEOPLE TO BE ABLE TO
VOTE ON THEIR SMARTPHONES.
HOW DO YOU PROTECT INTERFERENCE,
WHEN WE KNOW SO MANY APPS HAVE
ALREADY GAINED ACCESS TO OUR
PHONES.
HOW DO YOU PREVENT SOMEONE FROM
HAVING THEIR VOTES INTERFERED
WITH?
MR. YANG: YOU WOULD NOT MOVE
TOWARD SMARTPHONE VOTING UNTIL
THE TECHNOLOGY IS READY FOR
PRIME TIME, WHICH, RIGHT NOW, IT
IS NOT.
BUT THERE ARE TECHNOLOGIES ON
THE TABLE USING SOMETHING CALLED
THE BLOCK CHAIN THAT YOU CAN
TRUST INTRINSICALLY, BECAUSE IT
IS SOMETHING CALLED A PUBLIC
LEDGER.
YOU CANNOT TAMPER WITH IT.
EVERYONE CAN SEE IT.
THEN YOU COULD VOTE ON YOUR
SMARTPHONE AND CREATE A MORE
POWERFUL DEMOCRACY.
THE OTHER THING -- I WOULD MAKE
ELECTION DAY A HOLIDAY.
HOW IS IT NOT?
SO WE NEED TO EMPOWER VOTERS IN
DIFFERENT WAYS.
BUT IT DOES NOT MAKE SENSE, AS A
MODERN SOCIETY, THAT WE CAN BANK
ONLINE AND PAY PARKING TICKETS
ONLINE, BUT THEN WE HAVE TO
STAND IN LINE AND PULL L
EVERS ON THESE MACHINES THAT ARE
NOT TAMPER-PROOF.
IF YOU MOVE TOWARDS A VOTING
SYSTEM WE CAN TRUST, THAT WOULD
BE THE VISION, BUT YOU DO NOT
MAKE THAT MOVE UNTIL THE
TECHNOLOGY IS READY.
ADAM: I THINK YOU WILL HAVE A
FUN CONVERSATION WITH BILL
GARDNER AT SOME POINT BEFORE WE
GO, YOU WENT TO PHILLIPS EXETER
ACADEMY.
WHAT IS YOUR FONDEST MEMORY
ABOUT THE GRANITE STATE?
MR. YANG: I LEARNED TO SKI AS A
JUNIOR IN HIGH SCHOOL.
I HAD NEVER SKIED BEFORE.
THERE WAS A SPEECH ABOUT EXIT
HER.
I WAS LIKE, I WILL LEARN TO SKI.
SO I GOT ON THE BUS.
IT WAS A PAINFUL DAY.
[LAUGHTER]
BUT THEN I WAS PROUD OF MYSELF
THAT I MANAGED TO CATCH UP TO MY
FRIENDS AND GO DOWN THE SLOPES
BY THE END OF THE DAY.
I JUST SPOKE AT MY OLD HIGH
SCHOOL TWO WEEKS AGO.
IT WAS HEARTWARMING TO BE BACK.
I STILL HAVE FRIENDS HERE,
BECAUSE MANY OF MY FRIENDS’
PARENTS STILL LIVE HERE.
ADAM: YOU TOOK YOUR BRUISING ON
THE SKI TRAIL.
HOPEFULLY THE CAMPAIGN TRAIL
TREATS YOU MORE NICELY.
ANDREW YANG, THANK YOU FOR
PARTICIPATING IN CONVERSATION
WITH CANDIDATES.
THANK YOU TO THE STUDIO AUDIENCE
AND THE TOWN HALL QUESTIONS.
AND THANK YOU FOR WATCHING ON
WMUR.COM AND ON OUR MOBILE APP.
NEXT WEEK, JOHN DELANEY WILL BE
OUR NEXT GUEST ON CONVERSATION
WITH CANDIDATES.
THANK YOU FOR WATCHING AND HAVE
A GREAT NIGHT.
[APPLAUSE]
[CAPTIONING PERFORMED BY THE
NATIONAL CAPTIONING INSTITUTE,
WHICH IS RESPONSIBLE FOR ITS
CAPTION CONTENT AND ACCURACY.
VISIT NCICAP.ORG]